---
sidebar: auto
---

# Aim of the Language

## English

The Encapsulated Language Project aims to create a Language that encapsulates
as much scientific and mathematical knowledge within the sounds, syllables,
words, patterns, and essence of the Language itself to facilitate an intuitive
understanding of the world around us. A speaker of this language will have
instant access to a large pool of knowledge simply through understanding how to
unpack and parse their own language to utilize the knowledge cached within it.

The end goal of this project is to create a language parents can raise their
children speaking natively alongside their other native languages. The children
would acquire this language like any other native language. Then, when the
child starts their education, the parent would instruct them on how to analyze
and parse their native language to gain access to a wide range of mathematical
and scientific knowledge. This will help the child to gain an intuitive
understanding of the world around them and lower the amount of rote
memorization required.

## Esperanto

La Enkapsuligita Lingva Projekto celas krei lingvon, kiu enkapsuligas kiel eble
plej multe da scienca kaj matematika scio, en siajn sonojn, silabojn, vortojn,
ŝablonojn, kaj esencon de la lingvo mem por faciligi intuician komprenadon de
la mondo ĉirkaŭ ni. La parolanto de ĉi tiu lingvo havos tujan aliron al granda
amaso da scio per simpla scipovo kiel malpaki kaj analizi sian propran lingvon
por trovi la informon kaŝmemorigitan ene.

La fincelo de ĉi tiu projekto estas krei lingvon, per kiu gepatroj povas
kreskigi siajn idojn parolante ĝin denaske nature kune kun la aliaj gepatraj
lingvoj. La infanoj akiros la lingvon samkiel iu ajn alian denaskan lingvon.
Tiam, kiam la infano komencos sian edukadon, la gepatroj instruos al ili kiel
analizi kaj malkaŝi la matematikan kaj sciencan scion kaŝitan en sia denaska
lingvo. Tio helpos al la infano ekhavi naturan komprenon de la mondo ĉirkaŭ si
kaj mallongigi la sumon da tempo necesan por parkerigo.

## France

Le projet de la Langue Encapsulée a pour objectif la création d’une langue qui
encapsule la plupart des connaissances scientifiques et mathématiques en
utilisant des sons, des syllabes, des mots, des modèles et la langue elle-même
afin de faciliter la compréhension intuitive du monde qui nous entoure. Une
personne parlant cette langue aura un accès immédiat à une source de
connaissance simplement en comprenant comment déchiffrer et analyser cette
langue afin de profiter des connaissances dissimulées dans celle-ci.

Le but final de ce projet est de créer une langue que les parents peuvent
enseigner à leurs enfants aux côtés de leurs autres langues natives. Les
enfants apprendraient cette langue comme d’autres langues natives. Quand les
enfants commencent leur éducation, leurs parents leurs enseigneront à
déchiffrer et interpréter la langue afin d’accéder à une large gamme de
connaissance scientifique et mathématique. Cela aidera les enfants à gagner une
compréhension intuitive du monde autour d’eux et réduira la quantité nécessaire
d'apprentissage par répétition.

## Español

El proyecto de la Lengua Encapsulada tiene como objetivo crear una lengua que
encapsule la mayor cantidad de conocimientos científicos y matemáticos posibles
para facilitar una comprensión intuitiva del mundo que nos rodea. Para ello, se
usarán los sonidos, sílabas, palabras, patrones y la propia esencia de la
lengua. Un hablante de este idioma podrá acceder en el instante a un gran
repertorio de conocimientos simplemente sabiendo cómo decodificar y analizar la
lengua para sacarle rendimiento.

El objetivo final de este proyecto es crear un idioma que los padres puedan
enseñar a sus hijos junto a sus otros idiomas nativos. Así, los niños
adquirirán este idioma como cualquier otra lengua materna. Cuando el niño
comience la educación escolar, los padres le darán instrucciones sobre cómo
analizar su nueva lengua nativa para obtener un acceso directo a una amplia
gama de conocimientos matemáticos y científicos. Esto ayudará al niño a
adquirir una comprensión intuitiva del mundo que lo rodea y reducirá el proceso
de memorización por repetición en la medida de lo posible.

## Toki pona

ni li sitelen kama pi toki sona mute (toki Inkalanke). ona li wile mama e toki
pi ni: sona nanpa en sona sona mute. ona li kepeken e kalama e nimi lili e nimi
e sitelen toki e kon toki. ni la ona li wile e ni: sona li pona tawa ali. jan
toki pi toki ni li jo e nasin pona tawa sona mute. jan toki Inkalanke li
kepeken e sona mute kepeken ni: lukin en toki.

wile pi toki ni pi nanpa wan li ni: jan mama li toki e toki Inkalanke tawa jan
lili ona. jan lili li kama sona e toki ni sama toki mama ante. kama ni la jan
lili li kama lon sona tenpo. ni la mama ona kama sona e nasin pi toki Inkalanke
tawa jan lili. nasin ni la jan lili li kama sona e sona mute pi ali. Nasin ni
wile ala e ni: kepeken e nimi lon tenpo ante mute.

