# Aims and Goals of the Language

The Encapsulated Language Project aims to create a Language that encapsulates
as much scientific and mathematical knowledge within the sounds, syllables,
words, patterns, and essence of the Language itself to facilitate an intuitive
understanding of the world around us. A speaker of this language will have
instant access to a large pool of knowledge simply through understanding how to
unpack and parse their own language to utilize the knowledge cached within it.

The end goal of this project is to create a language parents can raise their
children speaking natively alongside their other native languages. The children
would acquire this language like any other native language. Then, when the
child starts their education, the parent would instruct them on how to analyze
and parse their native language to gain access to a wide range of mathematical
and scientific knowledge. This will help the child to gain an intuitive
understanding of the world around them and lower the amount of rote
memorization required.

## Priorities

The order of priority is encapsulation, followed by accessibility, followed by
acquisition.

## Definitions and Clarification

"**Encapsulation**" means that the language does more than provide a formalized
system of signs and symbols to communicate meaning. It means that all parts of
the system – the structure of the language – follows a logic that contains not
only the relationship between signifier and signified, but additional
information. Like a side channel containing metadata.

"**Encapsulation capacity**" refers to how much additional information can be
packed into the elements and structures of the language. Of course this
capacity can hardly be measured, but different approaches and proposals can be
compared in regard to their consequences for capacity.

"**Language Acquisition**" is the process by which humans acquire the capacity
to perceive, reproduce and comprehend the language to communicate and
understand the world.

"**Language Accessibility**" refers to language acquisition in a diverse range
of perception (as hearing, movement, sight, and cognitive ability). It’s not a
question of easy acquisition. Accessibility is concerned with whether it is at
all possible, not with how much effort it takes.

## Consequences

This project does not aim to create an easy language. If it happens to be easy,
that's fine, but we will neither sacrifice encapsulation capacity or
accessibility just for easy acquisition of the language. We assume that adults
who want to learn this language in order to raise their children with it, will
be prepared to put effort into learning it.

As for the children who grow up speaking this language, they will have the huge
advantage of picking it up natively. And practice shows that natively, children
learn even the most complex and irregular languages without difficulty.

Of course, native language acquisition depends on how competent the parents are
with the language, so we strive for a language that is easy to learn, but only
when that requires no compromises in regard to higher priority goals. Think of
it this way: we put the burden of difficulty on the shoulders of the parents
while maximising the benefit for the children growing up with this language.

It also means we do not aim to create an inclusive or accessible language. Of
course, we want this language to be beneficial for as many children as
possible, so we strive for a language as inclusive and accessible as it can be.
But we'll only sacrifice "encapsulation capacity" for accessibility if it seems
a really good deal to the community.

| Approved Date |    Vote Summary    | Link                                                                                                                  |
| ------------- | :----------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 06/08/2020    | 19 for / 1 against | [See](https://www.reddit.com/r/EncapsulatedLanguage/comments/hsot1a/official_proposal_implementation_of_an_official/) |

